"Realization, generally in Dokki meditation, when you continue meditating practices, such as
foundation bundle practices, and that, and then also this visualization or the sadhana practices,
and then we need to continue practicing meditating, and those are known as Dokki, of course, as
true practices, and that as you all know.
Dokki meditate, Dokki practices, and Togal practices. Dokki is what makes Dokki is very old, of
course, you all know. Dokki means cutting thoroughly, cutting instantly. And that, what that means?
Cutting duality instantly. That really is the cutting.
Duality, that's that. When you cut duality, what way we reach? We reach to the purity state, the
natural state as it is. Natural, natural state of mind. And that is a Rupa, pure from beginning. N
appa, Rupa. And a Rupa is also a name, many times, the ordinary mind.
Only the mind, not deluded, not fabricated by anything. Simple, plain as it is. That is also Tamil
Pichi in the teachings. Tamil Pichiva is not, only the mind, is not dualic mind. Free from duality.
Duality mind is decorated mind. Decorated of duality. Decorated in the public entity. But this
ordinary mind is free from duality.
Again, in the teaching, the great master, the great master Jai Moolamma said, "Everything old in
mind means dualic mind. We lost it."
Dualic, old in mind, in the Dokki teaching, when practicing, if they say that, "Old in mind means
mind, that which is from duality."
Dualic mind. That means what? Mind is from the emotions, negative emotions. Negative emotions are
what? Free from the ignorance, free from the attachment, free from the anger, free from the jealous
ness, free from the arrogance. All combination of those.
That is, when it is free from that, in the practice, Tamil Pichiva, Tamil Pichiva, old in mind
means free from the duality mind, that is free from duality.
That is ordinary. That is the best thing, nature. Grown nature. Nature. Nature.
So, when you reach that status, then what it does, in the teaching, when you reach that status,
finally to the cave, cave of the grasping and hub in the field, convert or collapse.
Cave. Or, cave? Or, maybe I translate the cave as like the tunnel. Tunnel of the grasping and hub
in the field are collapsed.
Then, that ego cleans the gong. Attachment is the gong. Negative is the gong. All gong. So, that is
what you really reach.
In the Dokki teaching, I think I will say later, that when you practice, the other two practice,
and then continually you are advancing the practice.
Those are known as, as you all know, path. You are advancing the path.
Path is, of course, a term, a metaphor, that metaphor, but it is not something externally existing.
Path is a realization. Path is a realization.
In the teaching, always say, path, most of them, southern chamber, and path, most of them, and
realization are the tenonim.
They are the same. Same.
In this state, path means you are advancing or discovering the inner nature of our mind.
Why are you saying mind? A colder teaching, when we discover the inner nature of the mind, we will
discover.
Then, we discover all it is objects. What that means? The whole five objects.
Then we also will purify five objects, too. We purify poem. So, poem becomes more pure.
Poem, song, smell, taste, and touch all become pure as we pure our mind. Pure from what? Again,
like duality.
Grasping. When we are freeing duality, then we begin to see external things are more pure and
simple to tell.
Then, that's what's called the pure land.
In many times, our great master, he's from Dunyun, but he's one of his last teachings, he said pure
land is not outside.
Have you let to see the pure land remove the dualities?
Remove the dualities. That's what great master, he's from the Dunyun, said.
See, I mean, that's all the teaching said. As much as we are pure, our duality mind, that much,
they didn't really see the pure.
Again, if you have the realizations, when you have some realizations, you will keep that as
personal qualities.
Realization should not express to the others. Actually, in the teachings, when you have the good
realization,
really local yogis never expressing or boosting their realization to anyone, to others. Keep
listening.
Maybe you can tell to your own teachers, but other than keep as quiet and peaceful.
Even use example, keep as a stone in the ocean. Ocean, that's really how you keep it.
Humble and simple. It's not boosting. Boosting. Every life to show the realization, show your
compassion,
show your love, your kindness, your patience, respect to the others, all things, being great for
all others.
That is, then, maybe the probability, but then he has some realization. Really think.
Just say, "I have the realization. This, of course, it's booming second, booming this and that."
All that. That accumulation part, the application part, the seeing part, all those, those are the
boosting.
Boosting of the realization, and we are cold and very energetic, we are breaking Samanas. Samanas.
Those are in the teachings here. So therefore, even though those advancing, the realization is
booming in that,
by the part and meditate with your devotion, your body is boosted, and that should be kept or
continually carry more body together,
more devotion, until we reach enlightenment. So when we practice this, and then in the looking
teaching,
those are supposed to, because those are called "poor visions" at the minute we know.
The first one is vision, or the realization of the seeing true nature, exactly as it is.
And the second is expanding the realization. Third is reaching to the peak of the awareness.
Here I mentioned here, peak of the awareness, or I translated peak of peak, but reaching to that.
And the fourth is, then, realization is completely reached to the dharmakaya status.
Those are the poor realization status, those mentioned in this and that.
And so when you have that realization, that moment, that time, finally,
then collapses of those that will come. But in order to come, in order to boost that realization,
then here, mentioned here, is all this following, this bad eating, explaining,
mentioning that, really, and what has it, will you lie there, your three doors as three vegetables,
and then continue from there, one, two, three, four lines, lines here, here,
and make the supreme offering of your daily trade, your body.
Imagine, to boost the realization, to bring the realization of this, like, to those poor stage of
the realization of the looking,
then you should do this, this following practices.
This is what is in the teaching mentioned, and of course, you know, you, it is.
You practices, you, you, I'm sure you heard that from the knowledge, you.
You mean, again, it's available, what means, cutting thoroughly ego, ego.
There is two ego, when yesterday, or two days ago, two ego, cutting thoroughly ego, both ego.
Both is to cut the ego of our self, and then second, cut of the ego, ego of the phenomenon.
To cut that poor and that ego, it's called, also, two practices.
In the Tibetan, it's very popular and powerful, very practical.
Two practices, it started from Gurba Masambhama, a great Indian monster known as Pata Masangi,
and then, as well as from the great master, task-level master, Marbha,
and then also from the great Muslim Rakhini, Rakhini, Māti-glāpādhi-dronma.
I'm sure you heard that, Māti-glāpādhi-dronma.
It's very famous, really, you're winning, or the Pīmā, Pīmā, realization,
means Dara, or the Dara, and the Ishin-sodhiā.
Already, Vārahi, and the Ishin-sodhiā, and all come in a human form.
Again, it's all known as Māti-glāpādhi.
So famous, and she met so popular of these two practices,
and gave the teaching, particularly two practices.
This is normal.
And then, in the Gurba Masambhama, we teach, as I said,
and because of that, also, so many Dettungs had two teachings.
All those great Dettungs had two teachings, and you all know that.
And these two practices, in Tibetan, generally, there are two practices,
the Mahamudra practices, and the Dokshin practices,
Madhivaka practices, Pandyaparama, the Awuma,
middle-year practices, in the teachings, those Gurba Masambhama,
they're all the same, different names, and they're slightly different techniques,
and it's just that, really, the nature is the same.
So therefore, it's not something completely different.
It's all, basically, the same in the teachings mentioned in that.
But this time, he has said to boost up the realization,
and then do the two practices, if you can do that.
In order to do this, then you visit, again, of course, these big teachings.
And then, of course, Dhunu Numba is one of the few master's,
and Dhunu Numba's teachings of the two meditation practices,
called Tumma practices, of course, the Awuma.
Very famous, a very popular practice, a very powerful practice, and so that.
And he also mentioned it to boost the realization of the Dokshin practices,
or the Shire Dhul Numba practices, and do these two practices.
In order to do this, this, then here,
over this, so, would you like your three doors?
That's three way there is this.
So, that you follow it, when you do the practice,
you follow it, Sanha, that you receive, Sanha.
Sanha is Sanskrit word, and of course, we all know, Sanha.
Sanha practice, Viki.